TODO.md, before:

##TODO

- Arch package

### Bugs

- Fan PWM writes fail once after reload

### Features

- Add support for AMD GPU fans
- Add options: new/exclude fan testing using regular expression option
- CLI fan point configuration graph
- qt configuration
- Check UID chip name against chip
- Better fail checking - exists(pwmX, rpmX, (?) pwmX_enable)
- Remove fan when control has been lost (maybe??)
- Add 'precise' option for more accurate RPM control
- Auto-config option - copy current controller configuration
- Check for NVIDIA hardware, and recommend libs for nvidia support
- Update interval as a float

### Performance 

- Optimize X11 auth & display search
- Better fan update search (starting from last used iterator) - requires storing last iterator

### Refactoring

- C++17: uncomment 'TODO: C++17' code
- C++17: nested namespaces

### Documentation

- Add performance comparison to fancontrol

## Watch

- NVML: docs.nvidia.com/deploy/nvml-api/change-log.html#change-log for XNVCtrl functionality
- C++17: GCC 7 & Clang 4

Commit message:

Reduce daemon start time; fix possible crash when running multiple instances with different commands; fix crash when NVIDIA fan defined in config without support; increase help text readability; refactoring
Signed-off-by: Hayden Briese <haydenbriese@gmail.com>

TODO.md, after:

##TODO

- Arch package

### Bugs

- Fan PWM writes fail once after reload
- Sensor thread may take > 100ms to update - causing old data to be used by associated fan

### Features

- Add support for AMD GPU fans
- Targeted fans option
- CLI fan point configuration graph
- qt configuration
- Check UID chip name against chip
- Better fail checking - exists(pwmX, rpmX, (?) pwmX_enable)
- Remove fan when control has been lost (maybe??)
- Add 'precise' option for more accurate RPM control
- Auto-config option - copy current controller configuration
- Check for NVIDIA hardware, and recommend libs for nvidia support
- Update interval as a float
- C++17: template Option & custom config path (with tuple of options & std::apply)

### Performance 

- Optimize X11 auth & display search
- Test between linear & binary search for points (of varies total sizes)
- C++17: replace appropriate `const string &`s with `string_view`

### Refactoring

- C++17: uncomment 'TODO: C++17' code
- C++17: nested namespaces

### Documentation

- Add performance comparison to fancontrol

## Watch

- NVML: docs.nvidia.com/deploy/nvml-api/change-log.html#change-log for XNVCtrl functionality
- C++17: GCC 7 & Clang 4
